Adding docs for migrating from SDKv2 to the Framework (#461)
hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework: website/docs/plugin/framework/migrating/resources/import.mdx

users to import a given resource.

The following code shows how you define an `ImportState` function with the Framework. The body of the `ImportState`
function is omitted for clarity (denoted by `...`).

```go
func (r *resourceExample) ImportState(ctx context.Context, req resource.ImportStateRequest, resp *resource.ImportStateResponse) {
    ...
}
```

The `ImportState` function includes a `resource.ImportStateResponse`, which you use to mutate and set your resource's
state by mutating the state.

## Migration Notes

Remember the following differences between SDKv2 and the Framework when completing the migration.

- In both SDKv2 and Framework, there is no access to the configuration, state, or plan during import. The import
functions can only access the value (e.g., `ID`) supplied to the `terraform import` command.
- In SDKv2, you implement resource importing by populating the `Importer` field on the `schema.Resource` struct. In the
Framework, you define an `ImportState` function on the type which implements `resource.Resource`. This implementation
satisfies the `tfsdk.ResourceWithImportState` interface.

> ## Example

Reviewer: We should also show the simple use case of migrating `schema.ImportStatePassthroughContext` to `resource.ImportStatePassthroughID` 👍

Author: I've dropped an example in.

func importPasswordFunc(ctx context.Context, d *schema.ResourceData, meta interface{}) ([]*schema.ResourceData, error) {
	for k, v := range passwordSchemaV2() {
		if v.Default == nil {
			continue
		}
		if err := d.Set(k, v.Default); err != nil {
			return nil, fmt.Errorf("error setting %s: %w", k, err)
		}
	}

	for _, key := range []string{"number", "numeric"} {
		if err := d.Set(key, true); err != nil {
			return nil, fmt.Errorf("error setting %s: %w", key, err)
		}
	}

	val := d.Id()
	d.SetId("none")

	if err := d.Set("result", val); err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("resource password import failed, error setting result: %w", err)
	}

	if err := d.Set("length", len(val)); err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("error setting length: %w", err)
	}

	hash, err := generateHash(val)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("resource password import failed, generate hash error: %w", err)
	}

	if err := d.Set("bcrypt_hash", hash); err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("resource password import failed, error setting bcrypt_hash: %w", err)
	}

	return []*schema.ResourceData{d}, nil
}
```

**Framework**
The following shows the same section of provider code after the migration.

> This code implements the `ResourceWithImportState` interface on the `passwordResource` type by defining an`ImportState`
> function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This code implements the `ResourceWithImportState` interface on the `passwordResource` type by defining an `ImportState`
function.
```

---
page_title: 'Resources - Import: Migrating from SDKv2 to the Framework'
description: >-
  Practitioners use the import command to let Terraform manage existing infrastructure resources.
  Migrate import functions from SDKv2 to the plugin Framework.
---

# Import

Practitioners can use the [`terraform import` command](https://www.terraform.io/cli/commands/import) to let Terraform
begin managing existing infrastructure by importing an existing resource into their Terraform project's state. A
resource's importer function implements the logic to add a resource to Terraform's state. Refer to
[Resources - Import](/plugin/framework/resources/import) in the Framework documentation for details.

This page explains how to migrate import functions from SDKv2 to the plugin Framework.

## SDKv2

In SDKv2, the `Importer` field on the `schema.Resource` defines how the provider imports resources to Terraform's
state. The following example implements resource import with SDKv2.

```go
func resourceExample() *schema.Resource {
    return &schema.Resource{
        Importer: &schema.ResourceImporter{
            StateContext: StateContextFunc,
        },
        /* ... */
```

> The `StateContextFunc` is the function called to import a resource into Terraform state. Any operations that
> are needed to import the resource take place within this function and may result in the mutation of the `ResourceData`
> that is passed into the function. The return value is a slice of `schema.ResourceData`. This slice, which may be simple, likemight be as simple as returning the `ResourceData` that was passed into the function, or it may involve multipleinvolve fan out to multiple resources, such as AWS security groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `StateContextFunc` is the function called to import a resource into Terraform state. Any operations that
are needed to import the resource take place within this function and may result in the mutation of the `ResourceData`
that is passed into the function. The return value is a slice of `schema.ResourceData`. This slice might be as simple as returning the `ResourceData` that was passed into the function, or it may involve multiple fan out to multiple resources, such as AWS security groups.
```

I think a suggestion got mangled at some point. I tried to fix it, but double check to make sure it makes sense now.

## Framework

> In the Framework, you implement the `ResourceWithImportState` interface on your `resource.Resource` type to allow
> users to import a given resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Framework, you implement the `ResourceWithImportState` interface on your `resource.Resource` type to allow
users to import a given resource. This interface requires that your type implement a `ImportState` function.
```

Just to make it explicit since we jump from saying the you'll implement interface to showing the function the interface requires.

The following code shows how you define an `ImportState` function with the Framework.

```go
func (r *resourceExample) ImportState(ctx context.Context, req resource.ImportStateRequest, resp *resource.ImportStateResponse) {
    /* ... */
}
```

The `ImportState` function includes a `resource.ImportStateResponse`, which you use to mutate and set your resource's

> state by mutating the state.

Reviewer 2: The wording here is a bit awkward, but I'm not sure how to fix it. ... it seems to be saying that you mutate your resource's state by mutating the state ...?

Author: I've reworded as follows:

> The `ImportState` function includes a `resource.ImportStateResponse`, which you use to set your resource's state.

## Migration Notes

Remember the following differences between SDKv2 and the Framework when completing the migration.

> - In both SDKv2 and Framework, there is no access to the configuration, state, or plan during import. The import
> functions can only access the value (e.g., `ID`) supplied to the `terraform import` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In both SDKv2 and Framework, there is no access to the configuration, state, or plan during import. The import
functions can only access the value (e.g., the resource's `ID`) supplied to the `terraform import` command.
```

- In SDKv2, you implement resource importing by populating the `Importer` field on the `schema.Resource` struct. In the
Framework, you define an `ImportState` function on the type which implements `resource.Resource`. This implementation
satisfies the `tfsdk.ResourceWithImportState` interface.

## Example

> In the simple use case in which `schema.ImportStatePassthroughContext` has been used with SDKv2, migrating simply
> involves using `resource.ImportStatePassthroughID`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the simple use case in which `schema.ImportStatePassthroughContext` has been used with SDKv2, migrating to the Framework involves using the `resource.ImportStatePassthroughID` function.
```

We try to avoid words like "simply" in docs.

### SDKv2

```go
func resourceExample() *schema.Resource {
    return &schema.Resource{
        Importer: &schema.ResourceImporter{
			StateContext: schema.ImportStatePassthroughContext,
        },
        /* ... */
    }
}
```

### Framework

```go

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

func (r *resourceExample) ImportState(ctx context.Context, req resource.ImportStateRequest, resp *resource.ImportStateResponse) {
	resource.ImportStatePassthroughID(ctx, path.Root("id"), req, resp)

> 	/* ... */

Reviewer: This should be all they need 😉 

```suggestion
}
```
